---
Title: DAM101 Unit 1
categories: [DAM101, Unit 1]
tags: [DAM101]
---

### Unit 1: Introduction to Neutral Networks and Deep Learning.
---

Throughout this unit, I learned about the powerful branches of AI which is deep learning and the neural networks. 

What I learned about deep learning is that it is a type of AI that tries to imitate the way the human brain works to solve a problem. It uses its own neural network, to adapt with little to no human intervention. Instead of being definite programmed to perform a task, deep learning systems learn from examples. It can recognise complex patterns in pictures, text, sounds, and other data to produce accurate predictions.

Neural networks is basically a method in AI whose function is the same as human brain. It receives input signals, process them using weighted connections and produce output signals. Under neural network, I learned about the architecture of a simple neural network. Artificial neurons in a basic neural network has three layers; input layer, initial layer where data is introduced to the network. Hidden layer, analyzes the data and the output layer, gives the result. 

And then there is deep neural network, deep neural networks have several hidden layers linked together. How do they work? They work by passing input data through multiple layers of interconnected neurons, where each layer performs operations on the data to gradually learn complex representations and patterns. For example, if the input layer has 3 nodes and the next  hidden layer has 4 nodes, then each node on the first layer is connected to all 4 nodes, applies weight , sums them up, and passes the result through an activation function, on the next layer for a total of 12 (3×4) connections. During training, the network’s output is compared to the actual target values using a loss function, which measures the difference between the predicted and true values. Once the loss is calculated, the gradients of the loss function with respect to the weights and biases are summed up using feedback. These are then used to update the weights and biases in the network, iteratively improving its performance. 

There are two types of neural networks that is feedforward neural networks that process data in one direction and feedback neural networks where connections between units form a directed cycle.
 
In the last class of DAM101, we looked through a python library called the PyTorch which is mainly used for CPUs and GPUs.




 
