---
Title: DAM101 Unit 2
categories: [DAM101, Jornal 2]
tags: [DAM101]
---

## Unit : Data Preprocessing 
--- 
Data preprocessing is the determining step in data analysis, involving cleaning, transforming, and organizing raw data into a format suitable for analysis.

It includes tasks such as removing duplicates, handling missing values, scaling or normalizing features, encoding categorical variables, and splitting the data into training and testing sets. 
Their goal is to ensure that the data is accurate, complete and prepare raw data in a way that maximizes the performance and effectiveness of data analysis or machine learning algorithms.

### Text preprocessing. 

Text data is considered as discrete data. Whereby, each word, character, or token represents a discrete unit of data. While text data may involve sequences of words or characters, each individual word or character is considered a discrete entity. 

Text preprocessing is an essential step in natural language processing (NLP) that involves cleaning and transforming unstructured text data to prepare it for analysis.

Some of the common operations in data preprocessing includes:
- Tokenization: breaking up a given text into units called tokens. It can be done at different levels. 

- Lowercasing: converting all text to lowercase to ensure consistency and simplify analysis, as uppercase and lowercase versions of words are treated as different entities by most algorithms.

- Removing Punctuation: removing punctuations from text data, as they carry semantic meaning and can interfere with analysis.
Stopword Removal: Filtering out common words that occur frequently but typically carry little semantic value in text analysis.

- Lemmatization or Stemming: Reducing words to their base or root form to standardize variations of words and improve analysis accuracy. Lemmatization produces valid words, whereas stemming results in non-words.
1. Lemmatization: lemmatization reduces the word-forms to the dictionary forms. 
2. Stemming: reduces derived word forms to stems. 

- Handling Contractions and Abbreviations: abbreviations to their full forms to ensure consistency and improve interpretability.
- Removing HTML Tags and URLs: removes HTML tags and hyperlinks from text data, which are common in web-based text that does not provide meaningful information for analysis.

- Normalization: regulating text data by converting accented characters to their ASCII equivalents, expanding 
abbreviations, or normalizing spellings to improve consistency.

- Vectorization: Converting text data into numerical representations which is suitable for machine learning algorithms.

Some of the python libraries used for data preprocessing are:

-Pandas 

-Numpy 

-Scikit-learn

### Image preprocessing. 

